HOW_TO_RUN.md, before:

# How to Build and Run the Application

This updated version of the application has support for macOS only, with streaming audio from server to client.

## Build

### Prerequisites

- C++17 compatible compiler (GCC, Clang, MSVC, etc.)
- Homebrew (recommended for installing dependencies on macOS)
- CMake 3.14 or higher
- Protobuf library
- gRPC library
- spdlog library
- Qt5 (for the GUI client)

### Installing Dependencies (macOS)

You can install the required dependencies using Homebrew:

```bash
brew install cmake protobuf grpc spdlog qt@5
```

### Building the Application

From root directory, run:
```bash
cmake -B build -S . && cmake --build build
```

The build process will automatically format the code according to style guidelines.

After successful build, the executables will be in the `build/bin` directory.

### Developer setup (optional)

If you use clangd/VS Code/Neovim for C++ language features and hate those red-underlines, give your editor the exact compile flags:
```bash
cmake -S . -B build -DCMAKE_EXPORT_COMPILE_COMMANDS=ON
ln -sf build/compile_commands.json .   # makes clangd pick it up from the repo root
```

## Running the Application

### Server

From the build directory:

```bash
./bin/music_server
```

Server commands:
- `status` - Show server status (available songs, active clients, etc.)
- `help` - Show help
- `exit` - Exit the server

You can also specify port and audio directory:

```bash
./bin/music_server --port 50051 --audio_dir ../sample_music
```

### Terminal Client

From the build directory:

```bash
./bin/music_client
```

You can specify the server address:

```bash
./bin/music_client --server localhost:50051
```

Client commands:
- `playlist` - Get the list of songs available on the server
- `play <song_num>` - Load and play a song by number
- `pause` - Pause the currently playing song
- `resume` - Resume the paused song
- `stop` - Stop playback and reset position
- `peers` - Show other clients connected to the server
- `join <ip:port>` - Join a peer for synchronized playback
- `leave <ip:port>` - Leave a connected peer
- `connections` - List all active peer connections
- `gossip` - Share all active peer connections with all peers
- `help` - Show help
- `exit` or `quit` - Exit the client

### GUI Client

From the build directory:

```bash
./bin/music_client_gui
```

You can specify the server address and P2P port:

```bash
./bin/music_client_gui --server localhost:50051 --p2p-port 50052
```

The GUI client provides the same functionality as the terminal client but with an intuitive graphical interface:

#### Playback Tab
- View and select from available songs
- Play, pause, resume, and stop buttons
- Position slider with time display
- Automatic updates of playback position

#### Peer Network Tab
- View clients connected to the server
- Connect to peers with a simple interface
- Manage active peer connections
- Gossip peer connections to all peers
- View synchronization offsets

## Sample Workflow

### Terminal Client Workflow

1. Start the server
2. Start one or more terminal clients
3. Use the `playlist` command to see available songs
4. Use `play <song_num>` to play a song
5. Use playback controls (pause/resume/stop)
6. Use `peers` to discover other clients
7. Use `join <ip:port>` to connect to other clients for synchronized playback

### GUI Client Workflow

1. Start the server
2. Start the GUI client(s)
3. Songs are automatically displayed in the Playback tab
4. Select a song and click Play to start playback
5. Use the control buttons for playback management
6. Switch to the Peer Network tab to view and connect to other clients
7. Enter peer addresses to join or select connected peers to leave

The server streams the audio file to the client, which stores it in memory and plays it locally.

### Unit Tests

After following build instructions:
```bash
cd build
ctest --output-on-failure
```

Commit message:

Make Qt5 an optional dependency for GUI client only
- Add BUILD_GUI CMake option (defaults to ON)
- Make Qt5 dependency conditional on BUILD_GUI option
- Update GitHub workflow to disable GUI build with -DBUILD_GUI=OFF
- Update documentation to reflect optional Qt5 dependency
- Improve build instructions for building with/without GUI

HOW_TO_RUN.md, after:

# How to Build and Run the Application

This updated version of the application has support for macOS only, with streaming audio from server to client.

## Build

### Prerequisites

- C++17 compatible compiler (GCC, Clang, MSVC, etc.)
- Homebrew (recommended for installing dependencies on macOS)
- CMake 3.14 or higher
- Protobuf library
- gRPC library
- spdlog library
- Qt5 (optional, only required for the GUI client)

### Installing Dependencies (macOS)

You can install the required dependencies using Homebrew:

```bash
# Core dependencies
brew install cmake protobuf grpc spdlog

# Optional: Qt5 (only needed for GUI client)
brew install qt@5
```

### Building the Application

From root directory, run:
```bash
# Build everything (including GUI client if Qt5 is available)
cmake -B build -S . && cmake --build build

# Build without the GUI client
cmake -B build -S . -DBUILD_GUI=OFF && cmake --build build
```

The build process will automatically format the code according to style guidelines.

After successful build, the executables will be in the `build/bin` directory. If you built with `-DBUILD_GUI=OFF`, the `music_client_gui` executable will not be available.

### Developer setup (optional)

If you use clangd/VS Code/Neovim for C++ language features and hate those red-underlines, give your editor the exact compile flags:
```bash
cmake -S . -B build -DCMAKE_EXPORT_COMPILE_COMMANDS=ON
ln -sf build/compile_commands.json .   # makes clangd pick it up from the repo root
```

## Running the Application

### Server

From the build directory:

```bash
./bin/music_server
```

Server commands:
- `status` - Show server status (available songs, active clients, etc.)
- `help` - Show help
- `exit` - Exit the server

You can also specify port and audio directory:

```bash
./bin/music_server --port 50051 --audio_dir ../sample_music
```

### Terminal Client

From the build directory:

```bash
./bin/music_client
```

You can specify the server address:

```bash
./bin/music_client --server localhost:50051
```

Client commands:
- `playlist` - Get the list of songs available on the server
- `play <song_num>` - Load and play a song by number
- `pause` - Pause the currently playing song
- `resume` - Resume the paused song
- `stop` - Stop playback and reset position
- `peers` - Show other clients connected to the server
- `join <ip:port>` - Join a peer for synchronized playback
- `leave <ip:port>` - Leave a connected peer
- `connections` - List all active peer connections
- `gossip` - Share all active peer connections with all peers
- `help` - Show help
- `exit` or `quit` - Exit the client

### GUI Client

From the build directory:

```bash
./bin/music_client_gui
```

You can specify the server address and P2P port:

```bash
./bin/music_client_gui --server localhost:50051 --p2p-port 50052
```

The GUI client provides the same functionality as the terminal client but with an intuitive graphical interface:

#### Playback Tab
- View and select from available songs
- Play, pause, resume, and stop buttons
- Position slider with time display
- Automatic updates of playback position

#### Peer Network Tab
- View clients connected to the server
- Connect to peers with a simple interface
- Manage active peer connections
- Gossip peer connections to all peers
- View synchronization offsets


### Unit Tests

After following build instructions:
```bash
cd build
ctest --output-on-failure
```
